


Core Java" is Sun's term, used to refer to Java SE, the standard edition and 
a set of related technologies, like the Java VM, CORBA, et cetera. 
This is mostly to differentiate from, say, Java ME or Java EE.

There are four platforms of the Java programming language:

Java Platform, Standard Edition (Java SE)

Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE)

Java Platform, Micro Edition (Java ME)

JavaFX

All Java platforms consist of a Java Virtual Machine (VM) and an application programming interface (API). The Java Virtual Machine is a program, for a particular hardware and software platform, that runs Java technology applications. An API is a collection of software components that you can use to create other software components or applications. Each Java platform provides a virtual machine and an API, and this allows applications written for that platform to run on any compatible system with all the advantages of the Java programming language: platform-independence, power, stability, ease-of-development, and security.

Java SE
When most people think of the Java programming language, they think of the Java SE API. Java SE's API provides the core functionality of the Java programming language. It defines everything from the basic types and objects of the Java programming language to high-level classes that are used for networking, security, database access, graphical user interface (GUI) development, and XML parsing.

In addition to the core API, the Java SE platform consists of a virtual machine, development tools, deployment technologies, and other class libraries and toolkits commonly used in Java technology applications.

Java EE
The Java EE platform is built on top of the Java SE platform. The Java EE platform provides an API and runtime environment for developing and running large-scale, multi-tiered, scalable, reliable, and secure network applications.

Java ME
The Java ME platform provides an API and a small-footprint virtual machine for running Java programming language applications on small devices, like mobile phones. The API is a subset of the Java SE API, along with special class libraries useful for small device application development. Java ME applications are often clients of Java EE platform services.

JavaFX
JavaFX is a platform for creating rich internet applications using a lightweight user-interface API. JavaFX applications use hardware-accelerated graphics and media engines to take advantage of higher-performance clients and a modern look-and-feel as well as high-level APIs for connecting to networked data sources. JavaFX applications may be clients of Java EE platform services.

Java SE includes has the following APIs and many more

applet
awt
rmi
jdbc
swing
collections
xml binding
JavaFX (Merged to Java SE 8)
Java 8 Streaming
Java EE includes the following APIs and many more

servlet
websocket
java faces
dependency injection
ejb
persistence
transaction
jms
batch api
Java ME includes the following APIs and many more

Wireless Messaging
Java ME Web Services
Security and Trust Services API
Location
Mobile XML API



